My idea for a project that interests me is a School Administration product that is delivered online. It would be used for a multitude of things, such as taking attendance, reporting, getting payment or consent from parents, making announcements, planning events, showing timetables, and the list goes on. However, aside from just having a portal online, I'd also like to create iOS and Android apps that would make things like taking attendance on excursions, or parents paying fees easier than ever.


During my year in the IT department at McKinnon Secondary College, I was amazed at how often our administration service would break, not work properly or go down for unscheduled maintenance, or even go down for scheduled maintenance without communication. I would like to create a solution that improves upon these issues, while also improving workflow within the service. The dissatisfaction I had with the current solution, and my own passion for creating quality solutions and providing exemplary service make this a logical choice for a project.


The service would provide a large number of features that would mean that all school administration tasks can be completed from within a single application, while also having an efficient workflow that means tasks can be completed with minimal time and effort, meaning that school administrators can focus on completing other more important tasks, such as engaging with and educating students.

The service would provide a way for teachers or other administrators to mark attendance, through a simple drop box. It would also provide a way for students to view their own timetable, and see what subject, teacher and room they are in. Teachers and administrators would also be able to create announcements in the service, that can be directed to a class, year level, a subject faculty, parents, or the whole school. School staff members would also have a reporting section, where comments could be made on students progress, grades given and this could be shared with parents of teachers. Expanding on this, there would also be a feature that would allow parents to book parent / teacher interviews, while only time slots that are available are displayed. A recap of what was covered in the interview would also be available on this site.


School staff would have access to another layer of tools. This would include things such as the ability to book a classroom for a lession, set tasks for completion, or write notes for another teacher covering their class. It would also include the ability to create notes on students for whatever reason, such as having an allergy, a learning disability, or some other sensitive situation. School staff would also have access to budgeting and purchase orders on the service. Included in this, would also be the ability to print a pdf of the purchase order, email the order to a creditor, submit the order for approval or if the appropriate permissions were granted to approve a purchase order. This would all be dynamically tracked in the budgeting section of the service, which would display what budget had been spent as well as how much budget was left. This information would be able to be shown as spending from a week, month and also per creditor.


iOS and Android applications would also be available, which allows for tasks that might be prone to an error in handling of the information or tasks that would be tedious to instead be completed within the mobile app, efficiently and without error. This would include things such as teachers marking attendance on an excursion, parents checking announcements or booking parent / teacher interview times or students looking up their timetable to see what classroom they are in, if they have a class, or if they require special materials in a class.


Aside from a laptop to create this application, there will be a need for servers for the storing of student, staff and parent data for the application. Aside from these, I'm not entirely sure what else is needed to create the application.


Given the want for mobile applications, and an online portal, I'd need to be able to use html, css, js, and perhaps something like react.js. I'd also need to be able to write in somethign for the iOS and Android, so something like Swift and Java would be useful. These skills seem like they will be very easy to learn, or find people who know these skills. I'd also need to have good project management skills to get the project created in a timely manner. Following that, good people skills and troubleshooting skills to help implement the use of the service in schools.

The main attraction of this service over other similar services would not be the tools themselves, as they are done elsewhere. It instead would be the need to design and develop something that is faster and simpler to use. Along with this, an increased level of communication regarding maintenance, and a high level of reliability. By doing these, the service would instill a great sense of confidence in the users, and show this product to be successful. This would allow school staff members to focus on the running of the school, or teaching of a class rather than tedious admin work.
